Interviewee: "That's when I found Irish and I've learned about this course. And post is in your grow, but time from where you started, I was checking your assignment to the level of answers which have written in your examination of the level of pros and cons which I have personally seen, which you have built by your home. So I want to note answer of two questions first of all, what does T test and for end and before that I want you to answer back to the question, why why do we need testing over here? Right. So T test is one kind of hypothesis testing and what hypothesis testing does is it quantifies whether or not the result has occurred due to chance or some random effect. From after training the model obviously, artifacts will be created and then we have the front end and back end as I said earlier, the back end is fast API and the front end is statement. So the entire thing we have our container is a queusing talker. For the visualization I've used plotly. So again, how to add as well, we use block plots so as you can see for rotation, rotation is great and torque there is a lot of you apply. And then I have done hypothesis testing as well. I have put into a nice table. Wow. That's so good. That's so good. So yeah, on it we will have to monitor what kind of whether the data is changing on our. So data drift basically is whether there is any statistical changes in the data from the trained data to the parent data. For performance measures again, whatever I've trained right, I've built multiple models. So we are just checking which is the best performance. Hey, Vishwas, welcome to the interview. Thank you for inviting. Glad to be here. It's so amazing to have you over here and interview and today what I do is I'll have fruitful conversation with you and make sure that we test you on the data scientist profile. Like, excited. So what exactly I want to do is I would start off with a very basic introduction of yourself and after that, what I I'd ask you some of the questions around it. So that we know that you're best way to the company as well as at the end, I've given you the take home challenge prior. So we'll take a session with you. Have built by your own. Right. So let's get started. Hi, I'm your engineer. My name is Vishwas Gaudha and I'm from Bangalore. I'm 20 years old. I'm currently pursuing my beta can computer science. And for the past three years, I've been actively involved in the world of AI and ML. First, I started off as a content writer. I started writing content for my own purposes. I published them on LinkedIn and other platforms such as media, etc. And then I got quite a few traction there and I got a few freelancing gigs. And then after that, I cracked an internship as well in a company called Entropic AI. So I did a three month period internship there and that was quite the experience for me. And from then on, I got back to freelancing again and again, I got a very good freelancing gig with a company called Sensor Ti. They're one of the leading AI startups in India. And again, that was a big learning curve for me. And that was quite the experience as well. And then of course, I thought this was the right time to get into actively building machine learning projects. And that's when I found I was and I learned about this course. So and right from the beginning, I was a zone bin and I was actively learning and building AI ML projects with the under the guidance of I was and it's been quite the right for the past six months. I learned a lot and I've come a long way from from where I was six months ago. And I did well in my exams as well. And here I am. That's very amazing to hear from a guy who has actually gone through writing technical content and somewhere to actually building the projects or and he has passed an stop in an examination which we has conducted. Uh, uh, a month ago and is quite amazing to see his journey as of now. So I have one question which was maybe I would like to ask that can you tell me that what exactly the content which you use to write prior and yeah, just just go with that. So yeah, the content was more of a business uses content more rather than technical content. So let's say with entropy care, right? I used to write about how AI is applied in a market visit. So I it was more of business use case and care studies and opinion articles rather than technical content. So that's how I got a very curious with the world of AI. That's something amazing to hear as well that you're already booking in some sort of domain and you're trying to reconnect the domain like you found something interesting and you wanted to get into AI and get into that. And I personally see you that because I have a tendency to absorb my students whoever is in the batch and I've posted a senior grow a time from where you started. I was checking assignments or from where you started with the level of answers which have written in the examination of the level of projects which I've posted a scene which you have built throughout by your home. First of all, congratulations for all of this. Thanks a lot, I sure. Sure. So, um, all of this is good. Like now let's get to the actual point is I'm going to interview you on some data science questions. And of course it will be not be easy. I'll ask questions which is actually asked in the in real interviews and make sure that I assess each and every skills. I've never given you the question which I've asked. So if if if maybe the viewers are thinking that I've given him that's totally wrong. I've made completely new set of questions and it's not like that is an intense rule and I'm going to just show him the questions. I'm just going to ask this way that the way I'm going to ask any interview or any candidate out there. So let's get started with the interview. Sure. Let's go. Okay, which was my first question to you is assume that. Assume that a researcher is analyzing the effects of two different teaching methods. For example, method A and method B. On a student's maths course so basically there's a teacher who is analyzing some sort of different teaching methods that might be some peer learning or flip learning. So he's like a method A and method B on a student's maths course. He hit he done a T test out there. He done a T test and researcher obtains the VATP value of 0.048. Okay. So basically he conducted a T test where he got the P value. 0.048. Okay. Now, first of all, can you explain me that what is the test and why there's a need of testing out there? Because basically by this, why there's a need of testing out there. So I want to note to answer of two portions first of all is first is what is the test and before that I want you to answer back to the question, why do we need testing over here? Right. So T test is one kind of hypothesis testing and what hypothesis testing does is it quantifies whether or not the result has occurred due to chance or some random event. So in order to ensure that we can rely on the result, we need to conduct hypothesis testing and T test is one of the hypothesis kind of testing. Okay. So can you explain some example of hypothesis testing like you say that he quantifies results. So what exactly I like I didn't understood like can you explain me in terms of examples? Yeah. I can go with the same example that you've given. So okay. Sure. So in this case, we will first the first step is to second another alternate hypothesis. So in this case, we could say that there is no statistical difference between terms of score between the two teaching methods. That would be the null hypothesis. Okay. And the alternate hypothesis would be that there is a statistical statistical difference between the scores in the two teaching methods. So once we've said the null and the alternate hypothesis then comes the testing. Then comes the testing. So as you said, we are going with T test in this case. So we would calculate the T test, the statistic score. That again is done through a table which can be done through calculated. And after that, we calculate the P value for it. Now what the P value does is it tells us how likely this event or observation has occurred due to chance. So in case are okay, in case are P value is less than a threshold value. Let's say our threshold value is 0.05. We could reject the null hypothesis and accept the high null identity hypothesis, which is there is a statistical difference between the two teaching methods. When it comes to scoring, so that's how we do it. Okay. That's good. Like, yeah, I'm convinced. So you said the P value will be 0.04. Right? You have given the next problem. Unstrum and next question as well. Which is what exactly this P value does. But I have two questions right now. Is the researcher who was testing the methods, which is method number A or can you conclude that there is a significant difference in math scores between those two teaching methods given the P value is 0.04. And consider the significance level as 0.04. Is 0.05? Yes. He can because 0.04 is obviously less than 0.05. So we could easily conclude that there is a statistical difference between the two teaching methods in terms of scoring. Okay. Can you tell me the null hypothesis and alternate hypothesis in this case? Okay. The null hypothesis. What exactly are doing with null and alternate are rejecting null hypothesis? Like, it's been been explained in that. Yeah. We are rejecting null hypothesis. Since 0.04 is obviously less than 0.05. We are basically saying that there is very less chance that this event has occurred due to random chance. So that's why we are rejecting null hypothesis. Very nice. I expect this on the review. As a whole, I have asked this question to so many people and it's a very less people who were able to actually understand the core of it because this is kind of a question which only needs the core and starting out really appreciate that you are aware about that. First of all, thank you. A very good answer from you. Nice. Cool. I have another question for you, which is another case study type of question. And the question is that data analyst is working with the data set which can be the information on the daily number of visitors to a theme park. Okay. So he's actually working with the data set which has the daily number of visitors in a theme park out there over the past 12 months with data is basically number of visitors in the theme park with the past 12 months. And the analyst notices a bi model distribution in the data with two distinct peaks. Okay. So in the data he shows bi model distribution. First of all, can you tell me what is bi model distribution? So bi model distribution basically means there are two different peaks in the distribution instead of one like we have in a normal distribution. So that's what bi model distribution means. Good. So now the theme park offers two types of tickets. First is a regular ticket. And second is a premium ticket. Okay. Which offers additional benefits as well as as you told. So there's two types of tickets. Now can you tell me first of all key what is the possible explanation? Whatever you think about that explanation. Can you tell you what is the possible explanation for that bi model distribution in the day number of visitors in that theme park? So the possible explanation for the bi model distribution is that since as you told that there are two different type of tickets. One is a regular ticket. And one is a premium ticket. So there might be two different sets of visitors who are buying who off for some who off for regular and some who off for premium tickets. So that's why we were seeing two peaks in the distribution. So how does it make sense? Like I want to know that there are that on the days like what is the reason behind it? Okay. So you told that a ticket may might be the same as that. The number of a ticket sold should be the same as the premium ticket. Right? Yeah. Okay. Okay. So now on this basis, is there any other possible explanation which you can think of? As I said that you know people might be buying regular tickets who are for who are closer who are locals of that near that theme park and they might have more free time. And they're just looking to just visit the theme park. And there might be premium ticket who are who have come from far along and who are looking to really spend and have a great time on the theme park. So that's the reason that there are two different peaks and both the ticket are selling at a good rate. Okay. Fair. I agree with your explanation. But one thing which going on in my mind is the presence of a buy model. How does it affect like the if the buy model distribution is present? How does this affect the interpretation offers descriptive statistics such as the mean, mean, median or standard deviation in this particular contact? So how does that affect the interpretation of our mean? Okay. I'm going to start off with mean. So the thing with uh, mean is that mean is always uh influence by extreme values. And uh in this case since there are two peaks in the distribution, what would happen is that mean would not actually be a correct representative of this central tendency. It would what it would fall somewhere in between the two peaks. So I would say that mean is not a good uh representative of the central tendency of the distribution. And then I think you asked very uh median as well. So I think a median would be a much better representative of central tendency. And that is because uh in median what happens is we sort the values and then take the middle most value. So when we are sorting the values, we would automatically get the ISP and I think that would be the best representation of uh central tendency compared to mean. Very good. That's very amazing that you pointed out uh the assumptions of both the mean and median and it's nice. Okay. So I have another question for you. Is my question works on like a last question on this uh on this section as a divided by question to two sections. So I have a last question on this. You have a 95% confidence and total for the average user dying spent on a web page. Okay. And that is 30340 seconds. Right. So can you first of all instead of this particular number and all can you explain me what is confidence interval? Okay. And how can be interpreted? Just take a random example or literally anything. So confidence interval, what it basically does is it gives us a particular range of values where the uh the true mean of the population is likely to fall in with a certain level of confidence. So that's where confidence intervals comes in. So can I can you repeat the example you give me please? Example goes that there is a 95% confidence interval for the average user times spent on a web page and that is 30340 seconds. Okay. Okay. Yeah. Got it. So as you said uh the with the 95% level of confidence, you're saying that the true mean of the average time spent on the website can be bit is 300 to 3040 seconds. So basically that means that we can save with 95% confidence that the true means of the average time spent on the website will be somewhere in between these two values. Good. You know I expect keywords and I'm getting keywords from you which is nice. Good. Cool. So I'm done with the first section of my questions. Now I'm going to go both the next couple of sections and the next question is that can you define and explain me the concept of correlation as well as I want you to differentiate between positive, negative and zero correlation and also I want you to provide real world example of correlation. Okay. Go ahead. So correlation is another uh statistical concept that basically describes the relationship between our two variables. Now we described both the strength and the direction of the relationship. So first you ask about a positive correlation right. So in positive correlation what happens is that uh as the value of one variable increases the value of the other variable increases will come. So basically they move in the same direction and why it's worse as also possible that as the value of one variable decreases the value of the other variable variable decreases as well. So and you ask for an example as well. So a good example of this would be uh let's say the number of the scores of a student direct is directly uh increases when the number of hours study also increases. So that would be a good example for the positive correlation. Very nice. One thing which I just um it's very nice the answers are correct just one thing which I would just like to address. It's whenever you're explaining something try to explain with a support of an example. Don't include example after that. For example you told that the variable increases when they will be increases. So maybe take one example prior. For example say that that that we are going to problem statement that that that that we have uh that student score we have we are going to predict the students score based on number of R C studying. So take that example first and explain how correlation comes into this place. Then we'll do more specific to the to the whoever is going to whoever is like asking the questions like very very clear and it supports it as well. Explain into view that that you are explaining to a get that would be the best mentality which again are out. Okay yeah first we'll start off with the example and then I go ahead. Yeah okay yeah that's good. Cool. Okay. So now I just want to go ahead and talk about something about A B testing and maybe uh maybe people usually ignore this questions but I will touch these type of questions out there. So let's say that you're working listen my portion carefully so that you understand each and every thing. So just listen it. So which was let's say that you working on a e-commerce store and a new marketing manager joins the company. Okay and read designs the existing new user email journey. So basically whenever something happens on marketing manager is changing something you know uh user email journey to dry and boost conversion conversion rates. Okay so basically uh new marketing manager comes in changes something before the goal to change to increase the customer uh conversion rates and a few weeks after launching the new email journey the new conversion rate goes from 40% to 43%. First up on tell me it is good or not. Yeah since the conversion rate has increased so that is obviously good use for the company. Good. But before you celebrate the whole scenario the company CMO points out the marketing you know CMO points out a troubling fact. Okay. The fact says that few months prior to the new manager whenever the few months back with the before the new manager comes in the conversion rate was already on 45% before slowly dropping down to 40% right. So how do you investigate if the redesigned email campaign actually led to that increase in the conversion rate because there might be some external factors right. There might be someone someone mentioning on a bill go or someone like that right. So how can you tell that the change in email campaign? Well he is the reason behind increase in the customer curve conversion rate. So I want to note the reason behind it. Okay so I'll break this down into a few steps for you okay. So the first step would be to gather data we have to collect all kinds of data that was before the new campaign and after the new campaign as well. How the metrics such as different kind of marketing and sales metrics and different the conversion rate changes change. So all that kind of relevant data may be user demographic data as well. So all those kinds of data we can collect and the next step would be to analyze those analyze the data and look for any patterns or trends that are that are quite apparent by visualizing it. So that would be the next step. And then as you said there could be definitely external factors leading to the increase in conversion rate. So first we have to ensure that that is not the case. So we must ensure that it's not because some kind of website redesign or maybe the project the product itself was changed or maybe because or maybe because the user behavior itself changed. So we must ensure that that is not the case. And once we are sure with that then we can finally come to A.B. testing. So basically what A.B. testing allows us to do is we create two different we segment the users into two different groups and the one group would be called the control group and that group would be shown the old email campaign and the second group would be called the treatment group which should be shown the new email campaign. And after that we analyze the conversion rate after they are shown the different email campaign. And then we decide whether as to as to whether there's actually it's actually because of the email campaign or not. And then we can perform statistical test as well. Okay very nice that's what your answer is. And one thing is like you're totally initially that we need to gather a data and all right for so if we are connecting a bit of a string then what's the need for gathering data from the past? Well that is just making sure that there is no some external anomaly and that there is actually external. You're just making sure that all everything got started in order and so how can you make sure key external factors are not just based on data? I'm sorry I didn't get you. How can you make sure that external factors are not involved based on the data which you have? Well let's say that there is a new website redesign right that could be one of the external factors. So and let's say that the conversion rate also increases at the same time that the website view design has to take complete. So then there is quite a conclusion evidence that this could be the very good reason why the conversion rate has increased and that could and we could conclude that there is external factor there. So if that kind of evidence is not there then we can definitely say that the external factor is thought that is an and we can go forward with the A bit of things. Okay so yeah good. So let's let's proceed to the next question. The question is suppose we have built a regression model. To predict the customer lifetime value okay so you know predict what is the lifetime value of the customer and it has a very high R squared value. So however when you deployed in the real world the model which have built the regression model it does not perform that. So what could with the possible implementation plan like what is the reason behind is not to find well despite of having higher square value. Okay it has a high R squared value but it is not performing well on the real world data. Okay yeah so there are a few different possibilities to why this is happening. So the first one I would like to explain is called overfitting it's a phenomenon called overfitting. So basically what happens is the model learns the noise and the complex structures and the patterns unique to the training data set and then when it learns the patterns of the training data set obviously it won't perform well on the testing data set. So maybe that's the reason why overfitting is happening and then again there's a lack there could be a reason that there's a class imbalance if it's a classification model. So maybe in the training data set the kind of patterns that are there in the data is not the same as in testing data and that's why the prediction is not taking place. And the other one is obviously that the data pre-processing or data cleaning steps are not picked a dull property there could be missing values or duplicate values or there could be a lot of outliers so that is one more series and as to why. But one thing but one thing over here is as told a it's a regression model. It's not a classification. It's a regression model to predict the customer lifetime value and it has a very high R-squared value. Assume that on the testing set as well. Okay yeah but why it is not performing? Yeah that's what. Assume that overfitting is not working. Yeah like I said the data processing thing might have not been done properly. So whether it could be handling missing values or removing outliers if there are one too many then obviously the data will not perform."
Interviewer: "so"
